[MUSIC]
>> Kyle: As quick intro for
anyone that maybe joining us on video or
someone that hasn't heard of me before,
just a quick intro,
my name is Kyle Simpson known as getify.
And I can be found getify at all
the major places like Twitter and
GitHub, Gmail all those other places I
list this stuff because I encourage you
to reach out and
provide feedback or ask questions.
Be going back over the stuff particularly
the stuff that will be going through
through the course of this workshop and
there's a lot of depth here especially
as we get further into it it's the
exercises become extremely challenging.
There are exercises that took
me weeks to work out, and
then I'm expecting you to
do them in 20 minutes.
So they're extremely
challenging on purpose.
I'm just trying to push your
understanding of asynchronous patterns.
So if you have questions about that or
if you're struggling with that,
please feel free to reach out.
I'd love to help you with that.
Just real quickly,
I've done several open source projects,
LABjs, script loader,
grips as a templating engine, asynquence.
We're gonna spend a lot of time
talking about asynquence actually.
But not because I'm trying
to sell you on that library,
simply because it is designed to help make
asynchronous programming concepts easier
to understand and manage in your brain is
designed to make them easier to teach.
So you get some exposure to asynquences
as we go throughout this workshop.
I am the head of curriculum for
Maker Square for
about the last three or four months.
Maker Square is a developer
engineer training school.
We have campuses in Austin,
San Francisco, and Los Angeles, and
we will be expanding, as well.
We take you from junior level
status to intermediate status,
and that's slightly different
than other schools.
Which may say, we start you from nothing
and get you to junior level status for
more on the higher end,
we like to kind of think of ourselves more
like the MIT of these developer schools.
So you start out at a higher level,
it's more as required of you but
we also take you a lot further to
Full-Stack JavaScript school so
we teach all the front end Frameworks
like the angulars and reacts and
all the backend things like Mongo and
Node and Express and things like that.
[COUGH] If you have any questions or
thoughts about tech schooling or you know
somebody that's interested or has some
questions please put them in touch with me
I'd love to chat with you more about that.
I've written a series of books on
JavaScript called You Don't Know JS.
A lot of what we're gonna talk about
today is covered in some way shape or
form in those books.
Particularly, the Async and
Performance book, as well as the ES6 book.
You should be able to find quite a bit
of coverage of some of these topics
in those books.
The entire 6 book series 1,100 pages worth
is available for free online at GitHub.
You don't know js.com
will redirect to that.
You can also purchase them.
They've been edited and
published through O'Reilly.
So you can purchase them if
you're happy with that content.
Today, we are going to talk
about asynchronous patterns.
Now, I wanna explain right off
the bat that my approach to this,
much like my approach to
the other things that I teach,
is to first focus on the concept before
explaining the how to use something.
That differs from some of
my peers who were first
would present to you the API for
something and
then maybe perhaps later, you might pick
up on some of the conceptuals behind it.
I think it's more effective for you to
understand why you do something a certain
way before actually getting too immersed
in the actual doing of the thing.
So for example,
some of you listening probably are already
at least somewhat familiar with promises.
But I'm not sure everyone has had a very
good conceptual grounding in what
a promise really is, and
why a promise is useful,
cuz I see an awful lot of arguing about
promises in the open source community.
And they seem to focus an awful
lot on bickering about the API for
promises, and missing out on the deeper
point of why they even exist.
So for each of the topics that we're gonna
go through today our goal is to build up
a conceptual understanding first and
then in practice of why we do the thing,
of doing the thing once
we know why we do it.
So we're gonna actually start even
before we talk with some code.
We're gonna start understanding a very
important distinction that is often
conflated.
We're gonna look at the notion of
parallelism versus asynchronicity.
This is really speaking to
the idea of concurrency.
So we're actually gonna dig into what
concurrency really means, specifically,
what it means to a JavaScript developer.
Cuz that is the motivation by which
we do all the rest of the things.
Then we're gonna turn our attention to
callbacks, the most fundamental premise
of all of, the fundamental unit
of asynchronous programming.
And what we're really gonna
see is that callbacks,
while capable of expressing
everything that we need.
Have some very significant deficiencies.
Two major deficiencies in fact
that I would use to define
the notion of callback hell.
Callback hell is thrown around an awful
lot and most people when I say that term
What evokes in their mind is that it
has something to do with indentation,
with nesting, things like that.
What I'm gonna show you is that callback
hell is actually almost nothing to do with
indentation and nesting.
There's something much deeper,
much more important to
understand about callback hell.
So we're gonna look at callbacks and
look at how they work.
First, we'll get some practice with them
just to understand that kind of some first
first person experience with the pain of
that I'm sure you all have that already.
But then we're gonna look at what
those problems are give them a name,
give those pro gear the problems
callback hell a name.
And that will be our motivation to why we
want to try to solve those problems with
these higher order patterns.
Another variation on callbacks that
we're going to look at which is kind of
interesting it is not
gotten a lot of attention.
Many of you may not even heard before but
thunks.
Thunks are something that I even
just sort of recently myself and
I recently I mean within the last year or
two, discovered this pattern and realized,
wow, I really wish I had been able to
articulate that pattern years ago.
Because, actually it's a really
good precursor to understanding
what promises are about.
So we'll look at thunks and we'll look
at why they are part of that tool,
they're one of the little tools you
should have in your tool center.
Having that conceptual understanding
of what a thunk really is and
what it's useful for
that will bridge us into promises.
In other words, thunks are kinda
like promises without the fancy API.
So once we get the conceptual grounding
in thunks will understand why promises
are useful.
We'll look at the APIs for how to use
promises, we'll get some patterns for
them all along the way every one of these
patterns we're going to be revisiting
an exercise, the exact same exercise
over and over and over again.
And you're gonna re-implement the solution
to that exercise using every single one of
these patterns from callbacks all the way
up the goal there being that you will be
fully understand you don't have to worry
about the problem domain anymore you be
fully understanding the pros and
cons of each of these patterns.
So that's how we'll go about it.
So we're looking at promises.
There were no good
generators in co-routines.
And by the time we've looked at promises
in generators we actually will have
a established two solid solutions to
those major issues of callback hell.
That represents the baseline.
The point at which if you're
ready to like tune me out.
I have wronged you or
you're bored or whatever.
You gotta get this part.
You gotta get through the promises and
generators.
That is the new baseline for competency.
And asynchronous programming is
understanding what promises are,
what generators are and
why the two need to be mixed together
to solve the issues of callback call.
That's the new standard for competency.
So that's really if you get nothing
else out of the workshop I wanna make
sure everybody gets to that point.
So we'll spend plenty of time
making sure we get to that point.
But that's not all because there's
more to asynchronous programming that
those patterns aren't necessarily good at.
There are more variations.
Point that I'm making is,
I have never once I've written a lot
of code in my 17 years in JavaScript.
I've never once written
an entire program using exactly
the same abstraction everywhere.
There is no one silver bullet.
Anytime somebody starts to tell me
something like X is the new Y, my BS radar
goes off I'm like no it's probably not, as
matter of fact it's almost certainly not.
There's no one silver bullet
that replaces everything else.
So nothing that I'm teaching you today is
going to be replacing everything else that
we've talked about rather you should
consider these things instead of all wars
you can still should consider them ands.
This is additive.
These are additional tools additional
patterns and you can develop instincts for
why one pattern is more well suited for
a particular set of problems.
My programs try to efficiently use each of
these different patterns where necessary.
Even things like callbacks and
thunks have their place.
Promises have their place.
Generators have their place.
In addition, when we start dealing with
event streams we'll find that promises
actually don't really give us a very
good solution when we start dealing with
event oriented programming, what I call
event reactive a reactive sequences.
That's also goes by the name observable.
So if you've read anything,
there's been a buzz recently.
There's quite a bit of information out
there about this notion of observables.
There's a library from Microsoft called,
RXJS,
one of the most common implementations
of the observable pattern.
I'll show you what that
patterns about why it's useful.
We will relate that back to in practice
with the expression of observables in
asynchronous library cuz
that will be easier for
us to play with without learning a huge
library with hundreds of methods.
So a very small subsection of that
will play with an asynchronous that I
call reactive sequences
does,basically the same thing.
So that's a higher order pattern that
will help us, put all the other stuff
that we've learned together in interesting
ways and solve event oriented programming.
Event oriented asynchronous programming.
And finally, the last pattern that
will look at very high level pattern.
Hasn't gotten a lot of attention
recently but it's called CSP.
It's stands for
communicating sequential processes.
This is not a new concept actually it
was invented in the early 60s, and
it was developed and thought about by some
really smart people way smarter than I am.
So there's nothing new that I'm presenting
here no new information that hasn't been
talked about for decades.
But it almost feels like CSP is
on the cusp of a rediscovering.
In particular because recently
we've seen some more popular,
more mainstream type languages
adopt this model for concurrency.
Namely the Go language
uses the CSP model for
concurrency as well as closure and closure
script, closure script being the bridge
that brings closure into the Into
the JavaScript world in the browser.
So more and more people
are starting to move into the Go
programming language world and
into Clojure and ClojureScript.
And they're discovering that CSP is
this really powerful pattern for
managing concurrency.
And I have heard people on
the observable side for
example tell me observables
are that silver bullet.
You can model everything
with an observable.
Yeah, kind of, maybe.
There are some places
that it's really good and
some places that it's not so good.
And then, I've heard people say, well,
you don't even need promises because you
can do everything with a CSP channel.
But there's places where that's
useful in places where it's not so
this is not an all or nothing thing.
But CSP is a fundamentally rather
undiscovered, or rather untalked about,
sort of pattern.
But I'm kind of convinced that it
represents kind of the next next wave.
If the big wave is observable,
if that's about to wash over us,
the one after it is CSPs, so
I wanna be aware of those things and
understand how all these
tools weave together.
By the end of this will be we're working
through some rather challenging exercises
trying to push our brains Into thinking
way beyond just a simple callback.
So that's where we're
going with this workshop.
If things seem too
simple at the beginning,
I promise you by the end they'll be
plenty to be digging your teeth into.